----------------------------------Mock interview Questions--------------------------------

1. What are the feautures of Java?
2. What is the benfit of interpretation(Compiler & Interpreter) 
3. Is Java faster than C & C++ - No its is not
4. Security of Java- When u download a jar file it will never harm ur computer and moreover there is a security manager which when properly enhanced it will ensure high security.

5. Features of OOP
6. Functions can be called without an object but method always belongs to a class.
7. What is the raltion between encapsulation and abstraction
8. Can overloading happen bewteen parent and child - Parent has a method which child overrides and then there is another child which overloads the corresponding method
9. Do private members get inherited - No it doesnt
10. Use of inheritance
11. Wat are different scopes? - default, private, public, protected (private>default>protected>public)
12. Is it valid to write System.out.println in the increment or decrement part of for loop - Yes 
13. {break;} - Is it valid- No it is not valid
14. char,byte,short,int and from jdk 1.7 even string can be used inside switch switch(variable) but long is not allowed
15. forEach was introduced from jdk 1.5(Annotation,forEach,ArrayList,Nio.1,variable arguments), 1.6 - Regular Expressions, HashMap, 1.7 - Nio.2(New IO, new classes for IO),String in switch,takes advantage of multi-core hardware ,latest jdk 1.11
16. Features of all jdk versions
17. There are atomic long and atomic integer but there is no atomic double or atomic float
18. What is the parent class of Exception- Throwable
19. Difference between checked and unchecked exception? - Checked exception is compile time and unchecked is runtime
20. For testing purpose we use unchecked exceptions 
21. Error are virtual machine errors while exceptions are related to program.
22. Why are custom exceptions used- reduction in complexity.
23. Is getting null pointer exception good?- Because developer is not instanting the object
24. Why is collection required? - provides a dynamic option to array while having the O(1) time complexity for retrieving the elements, menory leak problem is avoided using collections
25. What are different types of collection - List, Sets, 
26. Wat are features of list? - it allows duplicate values (Vector,ArrayList,LinkedList,Queue)
27. Wat is the difference between ArrayList and LinedList? -  ArrayList is a growing and shrinking array
28. How is linkedlist internally arranged - it is a doubly linked list, linked list implements queue interface and list interface
29. Whenever we require high volatility then we use linked list.
30. If we do not implement has code and equals then it allows duplicate value in hashSet.
31. For a railway reservation center which collection can we use - LinkedList coz there is multple insertion and deletion
32. Suppose we donont implement comparable or comparator in treeset then it will throw class cast exception.
33. When we need a customized sorting we use a comparator, else when a default sorting is required we use comparable.
34. Which algorithm tree set implements? - RedBlack trees





what is wora - write once run anywhere
features of java?
answer:
	what is portability - architecture neutral(like phone,pc,tablet)
	what is platform independence - platforms(on which code,softwares runs like code on operating system.games on engines)
	multi threading
	network savy
	secure
	robust

what is interpretation
what is benefit of interpretation

java is slower than c,c++

(just in time ) hotspot compiler


abstraction
encapsulation 
polymorphmism
	-> overloading
	-> overriding


relation between abstraction and encapsultion

overloading between parent and child

do private members get inherited - no

why extend a class - avoids creating multiple objects

for loops require same data type if more than one variable is required

static import?

multithreading datatypes: atomic integer, atomic double

exception parent class is throwable

error vs exception








features in releases
NIO: new IO =>1.5

binary pattern storage =>1.7